self-managed password auth docs (#32750)
MaterializeInc/materialize: doc/user/content/manage/access-control/_index.md

requires **administrator** privileges.
{{</ note >}}

## Role-based Access Control (RBAC)

### Enabling RBAC

> Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) may be enabled by setting `spec.enableRbac: true` when instantiating the Materialize object in Kubernetes, or by running `ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rbac_checks TO TRUE;` once the Materialize instance is running.
> Setting this with `ALTER SYSTEM` will take precedence over the setting in the Materialize Kubernetes object.
> You may see the currently active value with `SHOW enable_rbac_checks;`.

Reviewer: For skimmability

```suggestion
Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) may be enabled in one of the following ways;
either:

- Set `spec.enableRbac: true` when instantiating the Materialize object in
  Kubernetes; or

- Or, after the Materialize instance is running, run the following command:

  ```mzsql
  ALTER SYSTEM SET enable_rbac_checks TO TRUE;
  ```

If both are used, the `ALTER SYSTEM` command will take precedence over the
Kubernetes configuration.
